README.md, before:

# rb: The Ruby Auto Activator

```
$ rb @1.9.3 && ruby -v                           # set process to '1.9.3' install
$ echo 'ree' > ./.ruby-version && rb && ruby -v  # set process to current `.ruby-version` ('ree') install
$ rb @system && ruby -v                          # set process to system install
$ rb help
```

## What It Does

**modifies env vars**: activates installs by modifying the `PATH`, `GEM_HOME` and `GEM_PATH` env vars.  To accomplish this, it...

**adds functions to your shell**: for the activation, for resetting, and for the CLI.  These are needed to modify shell env vars.

**.ruby-version files**: supports specifying installs with `.ruby-version` files.

**auto mode**: (optional) modify your env as you `cd` into a directory containing a `.ruby-version` file.  This is accomplished by overriding `cd` and is **optional**.

**tab completions**: version string parameters, commands, etc.

**simple, focused**: it activates installed rubies.

## Rubies

Each installed version of ruby should live in `$HOME/.rubies/<version>`.  Install versions any way you prefer; [ruby-build](https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build) is recommended.

## Install

Open a terminal and run this command ([view source](http://git.io/rb-install)):

```
$ curl -L http://git.io/rb-install | sh
```

Add rb init to your shell startup script.  This installs tab completions and enables modifying the env vars.

```bash
eval "$(rb init)"
```

(optional) If you want automatic handling, add the `--auto` flag.  In additon to the normal init above, this overrides `cd` so your ruby version is auto updated as you change directories.  It is **optional**.

```bash
eval "$(rb init --auto)"
```

## Usage

```
$ rb help
The Ruby Auto Activator (release <release>)

usage: rb [@<version>]
       rb help [<cmd>]
       rb init [--auto]
       rb --version

More Info:
  https://github.com/rootedwest/rb/blob/<release>/README.md
```

### Using With `.ruby-version` Files

If no explicit @<verion> parameter is specified, rb will look for the version in a file named `.ruby-version` in your current directory and its parent directories, followed by your home directory.

The `.ruby-version` files are expected to contain nothing but the installation requested.

```
$ echo "1.9.3-p0" > $HOME/.ruby-version
$ rb && ruby -v    # will use 1.9.3-p0
```

If the `@<version>` parameter is given, it will always override whatever versions are specified in available `.ruby-version` files.

### Using With Pow

Add a `.ruby-version` file to your project, as well as a `.powrc` file containing the following line (this will make Pow start up your project using the install in the version file):

```bash
source `which rb`
```

### Using The System Rubie

```
$ rb @system
```

## Uninstall

Open a terminal and run this command ([view source](http://git.io/rb-uninstall)):

```
$ curl -L http://git.io/rb-uninstall | sh
```

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Added some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request

Commit message:

-f option to force a specific ruby version file
This overrides the version file lookup and allows you to specify a
version file without having to cd there first.

Closes #13

README.md, after:

# rb: The Ruby Auto Activator

```
$ rb @1.9.3 && ruby -v                           # set process to '1.9.3' install
$ echo 'ree' > ./.ruby-version && rb && ruby -v  # set process to current `.ruby-version` ('ree') install
$ rb @system && ruby -v                          # set process to system install
$ rb help
```

## What It Does

**modifies env vars**: activates installs by modifying the `PATH`, `GEM_HOME` and `GEM_PATH` env vars.  To accomplish this, it...

**adds functions to your shell**: for the activation, for resetting, and for the CLI.  These are needed to modify shell env vars.

**.ruby-version files**: supports specifying installs with `.ruby-version` files.

**auto mode**: (optional) modify your env as you `cd` into a directory containing a `.ruby-version` file.  This is accomplished by overriding `cd` and is **optional**.

**tab completions**: version string parameters, commands, etc.

**simple, focused**: it activates installed rubies.

## Rubies

Each installed version of ruby should live in `$HOME/.rubies/<version>`.  Install versions any way you prefer; [ruby-build](https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build) is recommended.

## Install

Open a terminal and run this command ([view source](http://git.io/rb-install)):

```
$ curl -L http://git.io/rb-install | sh
```

Add rb init to your shell startup script.  This installs tab completions and enables modifying the env vars.

```bash
eval "$(rb init)"
```

(optional) If you want automatic handling, add the `--auto` flag.  In additon to the normal init above, this overrides `cd` so your ruby version is auto updated as you change directories.  It is **optional**.

```bash
eval "$(rb init --auto)"
```

## Usage

```
$ rb help
The Ruby Auto Activator (release <release>)

usage: rb [@<version>]
       rb -f <version_file>
       rb help [<cmd>]
       rb init [--auto]
       rb --version

More Info:
  https://github.com/rootedwest/rb/blob/<release>/README.md
```

### Using With `.ruby-version` Files

If no explicit @<verion> parameter is specified, rb will look for the version in a file named `.ruby-version` in your current directory and its parent directories, followed by your home directory.

The `.ruby-version` files are expected to contain nothing but the installation requested.

```
$ echo "1.9.3-p0" > $HOME/.ruby-version
$ rb && ruby -v    # will use 1.9.3-p0
```

You can specify a ruby version file using the `-f` option.  This allows you to specify a version file to use without having to cd there first.

```
$ cd $HOME
$ echo 'ree-1.8.7-2012.02' > /a/path/to/.ruby-version
$ rb -f /a/path/to/.ruby-version
$ ruby -v          # will use ree-1.8.7-2012.02
```

If the `@<version>` parameter is given, it will always override any versions specified in `.ruby-version` files.

### Using With Pow

Add a `.ruby-version` file to your project, as well as a `.powrc` file containing the following line (this will make Pow start up your project using the install in the version file):

```bash
source `which rb`
```

### Using The System Rubie

```
$ rb @system
```

## Uninstall

Open a terminal and run this command ([view source](http://git.io/rb-uninstall)):

```
$ curl -L http://git.io/rb-uninstall | sh
```

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Added some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request
